packages/vendure-plugin-myparcel/README.md, before:

# Vendure Plugin for syncing orders to MyParcel

![Vendure version](https://img.shields.io/npm/dependency-version/vendure-plugin-myparcel/dev/@vendure/core)

Sends orders to MyParcel on fulfillment.

## Permission

This plugin adds a custom permission 'SetMyParcelConfig' that is needed to set MyParcel config via the admin interface.

## Plugin installation

Add this to your plugins in `vendure-config.ts`:

```js
MyparcelPlugin.init({
  vendureHost: 'https://your-vendure-host.io',
});
```

1. Create a shipmentMethod with `MyParcel fulfillment`.
2. Place an order and select the shippingMethod.
3. Go to the Admin UI and click on `fulfill`
4. Your shipment should be in your MyParcel account.

Reach out to me at [pinelab.studio](https://pinelab.studio) if you need any help.

## Contributing

Contributions always welcome!

### Dev-server

:warning: This will update the webhook in de configured MyParcel account!

1. `yarn start` starts the dev-server.
2. `localhost:3050/admin` will have an order already placed ready to be fulfilled.

### Testing

Run `yarn test` to run e2e tests

[![Pinelab.studio logo](https://pinelab.studio/img/pinelab-logo.png)](https://pinelab.studio)

Commit message:

fix(myparcel): Admin UI for apikeys

packages/vendure-plugin-myparcel/README.md, after:

# Vendure Plugin for syncing orders to MyParcel

![Vendure version](https://img.shields.io/npm/dependency-version/vendure-plugin-myparcel/dev/@vendure/core)

Sends orders to MyParcel on fulfillment.

## Permission

This plugin adds a custom permission 'SetMyParcelConfig' that is needed to set MyParcel config via the admin interface.

## Plugin installation

Add this to your plugins in `vendure-config.ts`:

```js
MyparcelPlugin.init({
  vendureHost: 'https://your-vendure-host.io',
});
```

Add this to your AdminUiPlugin:

```js
AdminUiPlugin.init({
...
  app: compileUiExtensions({
    outputPath: path.join(__dirname, '__admin-ui'),
    extensions: [MyparcelPlugin.ui],
  })
})
```

Start Vendure and login:

1. Go to `Settings` > `MyParcel` and fill in your MyParcel API key.
2. Create a shipmentMethod with `MyParcel fulfillment`.
3. Place an order and select the shippingMethod.
4. Go to the Admin UI and click on `fulfill`
5. Your shipment should be in your MyParcel account.

Reach out to me at [pinelab.studio](https://pinelab.studio) if you need any help.

## Contributing

Contributions always welcome!

### Dev-server

:warning: This will update the webhook in de configured MyParcel account!

1. `yarn start` starts the dev-server.
2. `localhost:3050/admin` will have an order already placed ready to be fulfilled.

### Testing

Run `yarn test` to run e2e tests

[![Pinelab.studio logo](https://pinelab.studio/img/pinelab-logo.png)](https://pinelab.studio)
