packages/vendure-plugin-google-cloud-tasks/README.md, before:

# Google Cloud Tasks Vendure plugin

### [Official documentation here](https://pinelab-plugins.com/plugin/vendure-google-cloud-tasks)

Plugin for using Vendure worker with Google Cloud Tasks. This plugin will show ending, successful and failed jobs in the admin UI under `sytem/jobs`, but not running jobs. Only jobs of the past 7 days are kept in the DB.

## Getting started

## Plugin setup

2. Remove `DefaultJobQueuePlugin` from your vendure-config. Add this plugin to your `vendure-config.ts`:

```ts
import { CloudTasksPlugin } from '@pinelab/vendure-plugin-google-cloud-tasks';

plugins: [
  CloudTasksPlugin.init({
    // Must reachable by Google Cloud Task. Messages are pushed to this endpoint
    taskHandlerHost: 'https://your-public-host/',
    projectId: 'your-google-project-id',
    // Region where the taskqueue should be created
    location: 'europe-west1',
    // Used to prevent unauithorized requests to your public endpoint
    authSecret: 'some-secret-to-authenticate-incoming-messages',
    /**
     *  Used to distinguish taskQueues within the same
     *  Google Project (if you have OTAP environments in the same project for example)
     *  This suffix will be appended to the queue name: "send-email-plugin-test"
     */
    queueSuffix: 'plugin-test',
    // Default amount of retries when no job.retries is given
    defaultJobRetries: 15,
    // The amount of retries when a job fails to be pushed to the queue
    createTaskRetries: 3,
    // Default amount of days to keep jobs in the database.
    clearStaleJobsAfterDays: 7,
  }),
];
```

2. Run a database migration to add the `JobRecordBuffer` table.
3. Start the Vendure server, log in to the admin dashboard and trigger a reindex job
   via `Products > (cog icon) > reindex` to test the Cloud Tasks Plugin.

# Clear jobs

You can call the endpoint `/cloud-tasks/clear-jobs/X` with the secret as Auth header to clear jobs older than X days. For example:

```shell
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer some-secret-to-authenticate-cloud-tasks" "http://localhost:3050/cloud-tasks/clear-jobs/1"
```

Will clear all jobs older than 1 day.

<!-- (Use this to edit the diagram on plantuml.com: `//www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/jL0zJyCm4DtzAzu8Kf2wi7H0HHsec4h9ZanyQGqN6tntLFdtEAb49If6Dkjz-DvxAr5Vr0PsRitPGklbNHxpwvEHqRCMhxGVSNE7X_NsvNC2bxWF0LK2pPWHzyDDmlCt6vy2KrbYQtB0MtLyHOzDssxTXUWFv_o8QO_UHwRGG38AQHbn5NjuLHe-LC3KQuEi1oh7A0JE9uSLWfSfx8wwNCBrvU5VtNQaLXBgAcg2syMYmJm5Zf4PbWALogM0g4X4uPIc9lpl4GXYNKSYlJ6FpLJntCkv5QLW0ty3`) -->

# FAQ

## DEADLINE_EXCEEDED errors when pushing tasks to queue

When pushing multiple tasks concurrently to a queue in serverless environments, you might see `DEADLINE_EXCEEDED` errors. If that happens, you can instantiate the plugin with `fallback: true` to make the Google Cloud Tasks client fallback to HTTP instead of GRPC. For more details see https://github.com/googleapis/nodejs-tasks/issues/397#issuecomment-618580649

```ts
    CloudTasksPlugin.init({
      ...
      clientOptions: {
        fallback: true
      }
    });
```

## Request entity too large

This means the Job data is larger than NestJS's configured request limit. You can set a large limit in your `vendure-config.ts`:

```ts
import { VendureConfig } from '@vendure/core';
import { json } from 'body-parser';

export const config: VendureConfig = {
  // ...
  apiOptions: {
    middleware: [
      {
        handler: json({ limit: '10mb' }),
        route: '*',
        beforeListen: true,
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

We don't include this in the plugin, because it affects the entire NestJS instance

## `ER_OUT_OF_SORTMEMORY: Out of sort memory, consider increasing server sort buffer size` on MySQL

If you get this error, you should create an index on the `createdAt` column of the job table:

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx_job_created_at ON job_record (createdAt);
```

The error is caused by the fact that the `job_record.data` column is a `json` column and can contain a lot of data. More information can be found here: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29575835/error-1038-out-of-sort-memory-consider-increasing-sort-buffer-size

Commit message:

Fix/cloud tasks data too long (#631)

packages/vendure-plugin-google-cloud-tasks/README.md, after:

# Google Cloud Tasks Vendure plugin

### [Official documentation here](https://pinelab-plugins.com/plugin/vendure-google-cloud-tasks)

Plugin for using Vendure worker with Google Cloud Tasks. This plugin will show ending, successful and failed jobs in the admin UI under `sytem/jobs`, but not running jobs. Only jobs of the past 7 days are kept in the DB.

## Getting started

## Plugin setup

2. Remove `DefaultJobQueuePlugin` from your vendure-config. Add this plugin to your `vendure-config.ts`:

```ts
import { CloudTasksPlugin } from '@pinelab/vendure-plugin-google-cloud-tasks';

plugins: [
  CloudTasksPlugin.init({
    // Must reachable by Google Cloud Task. Messages are pushed to this endpoint
    taskHandlerHost: 'https://your-public-host/',
    projectId: 'your-google-project-id',
    // Region where the taskqueue should be created
    location: 'europe-west1',
    // Used to prevent unauithorized requests to your public endpoint
    authSecret: 'some-secret-to-authenticate-incoming-messages',
    /**
     *  Used to distinguish taskQueues within the same
     *  Google Project (if you have OTAP environments in the same project for example)
     *  This suffix will be appended to the queue name: "send-email-plugin-test"
     */
    queueSuffix: 'plugin-test',
    // Default amount of retries when no job.retries is given
    defaultJobRetries: 15,
    // The amount of retries when a job fails to be pushed to the queue
    createTaskRetries: 3,
    // Default amount of days to keep jobs in the database.
    clearStaleJobsAfterDays: 7,
  }),
];
```

2. Run a database migration to add the `JobRecordBuffer` table.
3. Start the Vendure server, log in to the admin dashboard and trigger a reindex job
   via `Products > (cog icon) > reindex` to test the Cloud Tasks Plugin.

This plugin installs the `SQLJobBufferStrategy` from Vendure's default JobQueue plugin, to buffer jobs in the database. This is because most projects that are using Google Cloud Tasks will also have multiple instances of the Vendure server.

# Clear jobs

You can call the endpoint `/cloud-tasks/clear-jobs/X` with the secret as Auth header to clear jobs older than X days. For example:

```shell
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer some-secret-to-authenticate-cloud-tasks" "http://localhost:3050/cloud-tasks/clear-jobs/1"
```

Will clear all jobs older than 1 day.

<!-- (Use this to edit the diagram on plantuml.com: `//www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/jL0zJyCm4DtzAzu8Kf2wi7H0HHsec4h9ZanyQGqN6tntLFdtEAb49If6Dkjz-DvxAr5Vr0PsRitPGklbNHxpwvEHqRCMhxGVSNE7X_NsvNC2bxWF0LK2pPWHzyDDmlCt6vy2KrbYQtB0MtLyHOzDssxTXUWFv_o8QO_UHwRGG38AQHbn5NjuLHe-LC3KQuEi1oh7A0JE9uSLWfSfx8wwNCBrvU5VtNQaLXBgAcg2syMYmJm5Zf4PbWALogM0g4X4uPIc9lpl4GXYNKSYlJ6FpLJntCkv5QLW0ty3`) -->

# FAQ

## DEADLINE_EXCEEDED errors when pushing tasks to queue

When pushing multiple tasks concurrently to a queue in serverless environments, you might see `DEADLINE_EXCEEDED` errors. If that happens, you can instantiate the plugin with `fallback: true` to make the Google Cloud Tasks client fallback to HTTP instead of GRPC. For more details see https://github.com/googleapis/nodejs-tasks/issues/397#issuecomment-618580649

```ts
    CloudTasksPlugin.init({
      ...
      clientOptions: {
        fallback: true
      }
    });
```

## Request entity too large

This means the Job data is larger than NestJS's configured request limit. You can set a large limit in your `vendure-config.ts`:

```ts
import { VendureConfig } from '@vendure/core';
import { json } from 'body-parser';

export const config: VendureConfig = {
  // ...
  apiOptions: {
    middleware: [
      {
        handler: json({ limit: '10mb' }),
        route: '*',
        beforeListen: true,
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

We don't include this in the plugin, because it affects the entire NestJS instance

## `ER_OUT_OF_SORTMEMORY: Out of sort memory, consider increasing server sort buffer size` on MySQL

If you get this error, you should create an index on the `createdAt` column of the job table:

```sql
CREATE INDEX idx_job_created_at ON job_record (createdAt);
```

The error is caused by the fact that the `job_record.data` column is a `json` column and can contain a lot of data. More information can be found here: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29575835/error-1038-out-of-sort-memory-consider-increasing-sort-buffer-size
