packages/vendure-plugin-campaign-tracker/README.md, before:

# Vendure Campaign Tracker plugin

### [Official documentation here](https://pinelab-plugins.com/plugin/vendure-plugin-campaign-tracker)

Vendure plugin to track revenue per campaign, so that you can compare different campaigns from different sources.
To track campaigns, your storefront should send the unique campaign code to Vendure on a page visit:

- Pass a campaign code in the url, e.g. `my-website.com?ref=summer-sale-ad`. This URL is then included in your ads or email campaigns.
- Or, set a fixed campaign code for a landing page. For example, all visits to page `/sale-landing` will get the campaign code `sale-landing`

## Getting started

Add the plugin to your `vendure-config.ts`

```ts
import { CampaignTrackerPlugin, LastInteractionAttribution } from '@pinelab/vendure-plugin-campaign-tracker';

...
plugins: [
  CampaignTrackerPlugin.init({
    // Pick an attribution model. Choose from `LastInteractionAttribution`, `FirstInteractionAttribution`, `LinearAttribution`
    // Or, implement your own by implementing the AttributionModel interface
    attributionModel: new LastInteractionAttribution()
  }),
  AdminUiPlugin.init({
    port: 3002,
    route: 'admin',
    app: compileUiExtensions({
      outputPath: path.join(__dirname, '__admin-ui'),
      extensions: [
        CampaignTrackerPlugin.ui,
        ... // your other plugin UI extensions
      ],
    }),
  }),
... // your other plugins
]
```

1. Run a database migration.
2. Rebuild the admin UI
3. Start Vendure, and navigate to 'Campaign' (below Promotions)
4. Create a campaign, e.g. `my-first-campaign`.
5. Make sure that every page on your storefront includes the following code:

```ts
const url = new URL(window.location.href);
const params = new URLSearchParams(url.search);
const ref = params.get('ref');

const activeOrder = await yourGraphqlClient.query(
  gql`
    mutation addCampaignToOrder($campaignCode: String!) {
      addCampaignToOrder(campaignCode: $campaignCode) {
        id
        code
        total
      }
    }
  `,
  { campaignCode: ref }
);
```

This will add any visits to your website with `?ref=my-first-campaign` campaign to the order. This mutation will create a new active order if none exists yet.

If `my-first-campaign` doesn't exists as campaign in Vendure, the call is ignored and no active order is returned (or created).

Commit message:

chore(campaign-tracker): added image and improved readme

packages/vendure-plugin-campaign-tracker/README.md, after:

# Vendure Campaign Tracker plugin

### [Official documentation here](https://pinelab-plugins.com/plugin/vendure-plugin-campaign-tracker)

Vendure plugin to track revenue per campaign server side, so that you can compare different campaigns from different sources.
To track campaigns:

- Create a campaign via the Vendure admin UI
- Pass the created campaign code in the url, e.g. `my-website.com?ref=summer-sale-ad`. This URL is then included in your ads or email campaigns.
- Make your storefront send the campaign code to Vendure with the `addCampaign` mutation

![image](https://pinelab-plugins.com/plugin-images/campaigns.jpeg)

## Getting started

Add the plugin to your `vendure-config.ts`

```ts
import { CampaignTrackerPlugin, LastInteractionAttribution } from '@pinelab/vendure-plugin-campaign-tracker';

...
plugins: [
  CampaignTrackerPlugin.init({
    // Pick an attribution model. Choose from `LastInteractionAttribution`, `FirstInteractionAttribution`, `LinearAttribution`
    // Or, implement your own by implementing the AttributionModel interface.
    // See JsDoc of each model for more information
    attributionModel: new LastInteractionAttribution()
  }),
  AdminUiPlugin.init({
    port: 3002,
    route: 'admin',
    app: compileUiExtensions({
      outputPath: path.join(__dirname, '__admin-ui'),
      extensions: [
        CampaignTrackerPlugin.ui,
        ... // your other plugin UI extensions
      ],
    }),
  }),
... // your other plugins
]
```

1. Run a database migration.
2. Rebuild the admin UI
3. Start Vendure, and navigate to 'Campaign' (below Promotions)
4. Create a campaign, e.g. `my-first-campaign`.
5. Make sure that every page on your storefront includes the following code:

```ts
const url = new URL(window.location.href);
const params = new URLSearchParams(url.search);
const ref = params.get('ref');

const activeOrder = await yourGraphqlClient.query(
  gql`
    mutation addCampaignToOrder($campaignCode: String!) {
      addCampaignToOrder(campaignCode: $campaignCode) {
        id
        code
        total
      }
    }
  `,
  { campaignCode: ref }
);
```

This will add any visits to your website with `?ref=my-first-campaign` campaign to the order. This mutation will create a new active order if none exists yet.

If `my-first-campaign` doesn't exists as campaign in Vendure, the call is ignored and no active order is returned (or created).
