packages/vendure-plugin-qls-fulfillment/README.md, before:

# Vendure plugin to fulfill orders via QLS

Vendure plugin to fulfill orders via QLS. This uses QLS as fulfillment center and does not support shipments only via QLS.

[Official documentation here](https://plugins.pinelab.studio/plugin/vendure-plugin-qls-fulfillment)

This plugin contains:

## Product Sync

- Full product sync (via Admin UI):
  - Fetches all products from QLS
  - Ensures corresponding Vendure variants exist
  - Updates Vendure stock levels from QLS
- Partial product sync: Creates/updates products in QLS when products change in Vendure
- Partial stock sync: Updates Vendure stock based on incoming QLS webhooks

## Order Sync

- Pushes orders to QLS automatically on order placement
- Supports manual order push to QLS via Admin UI
- Updates order status in Vendure based on QLS webhooks

## Getting started

// TODO

This plugin requires the default order process to be configured with `checkFulfillmentStates: false`, so that orders can be transitioned to Shipped and Delivered without the need of fulfillment. Fulfillment is the responsibility of Picqer, so we won't handle that in Vendure when using this plugin.

## Webhooks

You should set up webhooks for the following events:

- `fulfillment_order.cancelled`
- `fulfillment_product.stock`
- `fulfillment_order.status`
- `fulfillment_order.completed`

The URL for all these events should be `https://<YOUR_VENDURE_HOST>/qls/webhook/<CHANNEL_TOKEN>?secret=<PLUGIN_SECRET>`. E.g. `https://example.com/qls/webhook/your-channel-token?secret=121231`.

- `<YOUR_VENDURE_HOST>` is the URL of your Vendure instance.
- `<CHANNEL_TOKEN>` is the token of the channel you want to use.
- `<PLUGIN_SECRET>` is the webhook secret you've passed into the plugin's `init()` function.

### Stock location setup

This plugin only uses Vendure's default stock location, that means you should either:

1. Remove all but one stock location in Vendure
2. Or, remove all stock from other stock locations than the default in Vendure

Vendure assumes the first created stock location is the default stock location.

## Monitoring

Make sure to monitor failed jobs: A job that failed after its retries were exhausted, means:

1. An order was not pushed to QLS
2. A product was not synced to QLS

Monitor your logs for the string `QLS webhook error`. This means an incoming stock update webhook was not processed correctly.

## Cancelling orders and manually pushing orders to QLS

// TODO: Push will just create a new order in QLS, it will not cancel the existing order in QLS. Cancel existing order first via https://mijn.pakketdienstqls.nl/

Commit message:

feat(qls): catch variant specific errors

packages/vendure-plugin-qls-fulfillment/README.md, after:

# Vendure plugin to fulfill orders via QLS

Vendure plugin to fulfill orders via QLS. This uses QLS as fulfillment center and does not support shipments only via QLS.

[Official documentation here](https://plugins.pinelab.studio/plugin/vendure-plugin-qls-fulfillment)

This plugin contains:

## Product Sync

- Full product sync (via Admin UI):
  - Fetches all products from QLS
  - Ensures corresponding Vendure variants exist
  - Updates Vendure stock levels from QLS
- Partial product sync: Creates/updates products in QLS when products change in Vendure
- Partial stock sync: Updates Vendure stock based on incoming QLS webhooks

## Order Sync

- Pushes orders to QLS automatically on order placement
- Supports manual order push to QLS via Admin UI
- Updates order status in Vendure based on QLS webhooks

## Getting started

// TODO

This plugin requires the default order process to be configured with `checkFulfillmentStates: false`, so that orders can be transitioned to Shipped and Delivered without the need of fulfillment. Fulfillment is the responsibility of Picqer, so we won't handle that in Vendure when using this plugin.

## Webhooks

You should set up webhooks for the following events:

- `fulfillment_order.cancelled`
- `fulfillment_product.stock`
- `fulfillment_order.status`
- `fulfillment_order.completed`

The URL for all these events should be `https://<YOUR_VENDURE_HOST>/qls/webhook/<CHANNEL_TOKEN>?secret=<PLUGIN_SECRET>`. E.g. `https://example.com/qls/webhook/your-channel-token?secret=121231`.

- `<YOUR_VENDURE_HOST>` is the URL of your Vendure instance.
- `<CHANNEL_TOKEN>` is the token of the channel you want to use.
- `<PLUGIN_SECRET>` is the webhook secret you've passed into the plugin's `init()` function.

### Stock location setup

This plugin only uses Vendure's default stock location, that means you should either:

1. Remove all but one stock location in Vendure
2. Or, remove all stock from other stock locations than the default in Vendure

Vendure assumes the first created stock location is the default stock location.

## Monitoring

Make sure to monitor failed jobs: A job that failed after its retries were exhausted, means:

1. An order was not pushed to QLS
2. A product was not synced to QLS

Monitor your logs for the following text:

- `QLS webhook error` - This means an incoming stock update webhook was not processed correctly.
- `Error creating or updating variant` - This means a product was not synced to QLS.

Make sure to filter by logger context `QlsPlugin`, to prevent false positive alerts.

## Cancelling orders and manually pushing orders to QLS

// TODO: Push will just create a new order in QLS, it will not cancel the existing order in QLS. Cancel existing order first via https://mijn.pakketdienstqls.nl/
