packages/vendure-plugin-modify-customer-orders/README.md, before:

# Modify Customer Orders plugin

This plugin allows you to convert an active order from a customer to a Draft order, edit it, and connect it back to the customer.

1. Login as administrator and go to 'Orders' and then the 'Active' tab
2. Click the 'Convert order to Draft'
3. The order can now be edited as admin under 'Drafts'
4. Click `Complete draft` to connect the order as active order to a customer. (This behaviour can be disabled, see `autoAssignDraftOrdersToCustomer` below)

## Getting started

```ts
// vendure-config.ts
import { ModifyCustomerOrdersPlugin } from '@pinelab/vendure-plugin-modify-customer-orders';

plugins: [
  ModifyCustomerOrdersPlugin.init({
    /**
     * Automatically make completed draft orders active orders for the connected customer
     */
    autoAssignDraftOrdersToCustomer: true,
  }),
  AdminUiPlugin.init({
    port: 3002,
    route: 'admin',
    app: compileUiExtensions({
      outputPath: path.join(__dirname, '__admin-ui'),
      extensions: [ModifyCustomerOrdersPlugin.ui], // Add the "Convert to draft" button
      devMode: true,
    }),
  }),
];
```

![](./docs/button.png)

Commit message:

feat(modify-customer-orders): readme

packages/vendure-plugin-modify-customer-orders/README.md, after:

# Modify Customer Orders plugin

This plugin allows you to convert an active order from a customer to a Draft order, edit it, and connect it back to the customer.

1. Login as administrator and go to 'Orders' and then the 'Active' tab
2. Click the 'Convert order to Draft'
3. The order can now be edited as admin under 'Drafts'
4. Click `Complete draft` to connect the order as active order to a customer. (This behaviour can be disabled, see `autoAssignDraftOrdersToCustomer` below)

When you connect a Draft order to a customer, the customers existing active order will be made a Draft.

## Getting started

```ts
// vendure-config.ts
import { ModifyCustomerOrdersPlugin } from '@pinelab/vendure-plugin-modify-customer-orders';

plugins: [
  ModifyCustomerOrdersPlugin.init({
    /**
     * Automatically make completed draft orders active orders for the connected customer
     */
    autoAssignDraftOrdersToCustomer: true,
  }),
  AdminUiPlugin.init({
    port: 3002,
    route: 'admin',
    app: compileUiExtensions({
      outputPath: path.join(__dirname, '__admin-ui'),
      extensions: [ModifyCustomerOrdersPlugin.ui], // Add the "Convert to draft" button
      devMode: true,
    }),
  }),
];
```
