packages/vendure-plugin-frequently-bought-together/README.md, before:

# Frequently Bought Together Plugin

### [Official documentation here](https://pinelab-plugins.com/plugin/pinelab-frequently-bought-together-plugin)

This plugin finds products that are often bought together by looking at past orders. You can integrate these frequently bought together products on your storefront, and so increase your revenue.

## Installation

1. To install the plugin, add it to your Vendure config and include its Admin UI extension in the Admin UI plugin:

```ts
import { FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin } from '@vendure-hub/pinelab-frequently-bought-together-plugin';

const vendureConfig = {
  plugins: [
    FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.init({
      // Disable this in production!
      experimentMode: true,
      // Test this support level first. See below for more details.
      supportLevel: 0.001,
    }),
    AdminUiPlugin.init({
      port: 3002,
      route: 'admin',
      app: compileUiExtensions({
        outputPath: path.join(__dirname, '__admin-ui'),
        extensions: [FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.ui],
      }),
    }),
  ],
};
```

2. Run a database migration to add the custom fields to your database.

## Storefront usage

You can get the related product via the shop API with the following query:

```graphql
{
  product(id: 2) {
    id
    name
    slug
    frequentlyBoughtWith {
      id
      name
      slug
    }
  }
}
```

Product relations in the Shop API are sorted by support, meaning that the most bought together products will appear first in the list.
The admin UI shows relations in random order due to the unordered nature of SQL relations.

## Experiment mode

Each shop's optimal support level varies based on data density. For example, a shop with many variants and few orders requires a lower support level. To experiment with support levels:

1. Start the server locally, and make sure you have set `experimentMode: true` in the plugin's init function.
2. Go to `http://localhost:3000/admin-api` or use a GraphQL client like Yaak to use the admin API
3. Execute the following query against the admin api:

```graphql
{
  previewFrequentlyBoughtTogether(support: 0.1) {
    # The peak amount of memory that was used during calculation. This should be a max of 80% of your worker instance
    maxMemoryUsedInMB
    # The different products that are included in the relations
    uniqueProducts
    # Total number of item sets
    totalItemSets
    # Most confident item sets
    bestItemSets {
      # E.g. ['product-1', 'product-5']
      items
      # Support is the number of orders this combination was in
      support
    }
    # Least confident item sets
    worstItemSets {
      items
      support
    }
  }
}
```

When you have found your desired support level, you set it in the plugin:

```ts
      FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.init({
        // Disable experiment mode in production!
        experimentMode: false,
        supportLevel: 0.00005
      }),
```

1. Run the server again
2. Go to `/admin/catalog/products`
3. Click the three buttons at the top right and click `Calculate frequently bought together relations`

The frequently bought together relations are now set on your products.

Tips for Tweaking Support Levels:

- Start high (e.g., `0.1`) and gradually reduce (`0.01`, `0.001`, etc.).
- Review the worst item sets:
  - Increase the support level if they seem irrelevant.
  - If support equals 1, it indicates a single order—a poor indicator of frequent purchases.
- Monitor memory usage to avoid exceeding worker RAM.

## Channel specific support

To set different support levels for channels:

```ts
      FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.init({
        // Disable experiment mode in production!
        experimentMode: false,
        supportLevel: (ctx) => {
            if (ctx.channel.token === 'channel-with-lots-of-variants') {
                return 0.000001
            } else {
                return 0.0001
            }
        }
      }),
```

Use the `vendure-token` header to preview queries for specific channels.

Commit message:

feat(frequently-bought-together): readme paid plugin

packages/vendure-plugin-frequently-bought-together/README.md, after:

# Frequently Bought Together Plugin

### [Official documentation here](https://pinelab-plugins.com/plugin/pinelab-frequently-bought-together-plugin)

This plugin finds products that are often bought together by looking at past orders. You can integrate these frequently bought together products on your storefront, and so increase your revenue.

This is a paid plugin. For production use, please purchase a license at https://vendure.io/marketplace.

## Installation

1. To install the plugin, add it to your Vendure config and include its Admin UI extension in the Admin UI plugin:

```ts
import { FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin } from '@vendure-hub/pinelab-frequently-bought-together-plugin';

const vendureConfig = {
  plugins: [
    FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.init({
      // Disable this in production!
      experimentMode: true,
      // Test this support level first. See below for more details.
      supportLevel: 0.001,
    }),
    AdminUiPlugin.init({
      port: 3002,
      route: 'admin',
      app: compileUiExtensions({
        outputPath: path.join(__dirname, '__admin-ui'),
        extensions: [FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.ui],
      }),
    }),
  ],
};
```

2. Run a database migration to add the custom fields to your database.

## Storefront usage

You can get the related product via the shop API with the following query:

```graphql
{
  product(id: 2) {
    id
    name
    slug
    frequentlyBoughtWith {
      id
      name
      slug
    }
  }
}
```

Product relations in the Shop API are sorted by support, meaning that the most bought together products will appear first in the list.
The admin UI shows relations in random order due to the unordered nature of SQL relations.

## Experiment mode

Each shop's optimal support level varies based on data density. For example, a shop with many variants and few orders requires a lower support level. To experiment with support levels:

1. Start the server locally, and make sure you have set `experimentMode: true` in the plugin's init function.
2. Go to `http://localhost:3000/admin-api` or use a GraphQL client like Yaak to use the admin API
3. Execute the following query against the admin api:

```graphql
{
  previewFrequentlyBoughtTogether(support: 0.1) {
    # The peak amount of memory that was used during calculation. This should be a max of 80% of your worker instance
    maxMemoryUsedInMB
    # The different products that are included in the relations
    uniqueProducts
    # Total number of item sets
    totalItemSets
    # Most confident item sets
    bestItemSets {
      # E.g. ['product-1', 'product-5']
      items
      # Support is the number of orders this combination was in
      support
    }
    # Least confident item sets
    worstItemSets {
      items
      support
    }
  }
}
```

When you have found your desired support level, you set it in the plugin:

```ts
      FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.init({
        // Disable experiment mode in production!
        experimentMode: false,
        supportLevel: 0.00005
      }),
```

1. Run the server again
2. Go to `/admin/catalog/products`
3. Click the three buttons at the top right and click `Calculate frequently bought together relations`

The frequently bought together relations are now set on your products.

Tips for Tweaking Support Levels:

- Start high (e.g., `0.1`) and gradually reduce (`0.01`, `0.001`, etc.).
- Review the worst item sets:
  - Increase the support level if they seem irrelevant.
  - If support equals 1, it indicates a single order—a poor indicator of frequent purchases.
- Monitor memory usage to avoid exceeding worker RAM.

## Channel specific support

To set different support levels for channels:

```ts
      FrequentlyBoughtTogetherPlugin.init({
        // Disable experiment mode in production!
        experimentMode: false,
        supportLevel: (ctx) => {
            if (ctx.channel.token === 'channel-with-lots-of-variants') {
                return 0.000001
            } else {
                return 0.0001
            }
        }
      }),
```

Use the `vendure-token` header to preview queries for specific channels.
